# Mysql faked dump *ALPHA*
Create censored dump with a finger snap!

:no_entry_sign: *This tool is an alpha version and should not be used.*

## prerequisite
in order to install the dependencies, you need `composer`, and has this tool rely on symfony 4, you need at least `php 7.1`.

## installation

```bash
composer install
```

## usage

Just call `bin/console mysql-faked:dump` with one parameter: the path to a valid config file.
It will output the dump on the stdout.
The dump progress is output on the stderr.

you can store the dump by redirecting stdout to a file:
```bash
bin/console mysql-faked:dump path/to/file.yaml > ~/Desktop/dump.sql
```

or directly execute it : 
```bash
bin/console mysql-faked:dump path/to/file.yaml | mysql --host=remote_host -C db_name
```

this command accept two options :
 - skip-drop-table
 - skip-create-table
 

## configuration
The configuration is written in yaml, it has tree main entries.

##### example: 
```yaml
data_source:
  dsn: 'mysql:dbname=foo;host=localhost;port=3600'
  user: 'root'
  password: ~
  options: []
options:
  exclude_missing_tables: false
tables:
  fos_user:
    columns:
      email:
        faker: email
        alias: [email_canonical]
      last_name:
        faker: lastName
      company:
        faker: company
      password:
        empty: true
  oauth_*:
    pattern: "oauth_.*"
    exclude: true
```

##### data_source: 
This part describe how to connect to mysql.
see  [PDO::__construct] in order to see how to configure it more deeply

##### options: 
for now only one option exists:

 - `exclude_missing_tables`: whether non mapped table should be dumped or ignored. 


##### tables
This entry let you configure special cases:
 - ignore tables: `exclude: true`
 - special values for columns
   - empty value: `empty: true`
   - fake value : `faker: company`

NB : fake values are generated by using the [Faker] library, so you can use every formatter provided, or even write your own.

   
###### pattern  
If you want to map many tables within one configuration entry, use an impossible to match table name  (ie: `oauth_*`) and configure a pattern (ie `pattern: "oauth_.*"`).
 
###### alias 
Faker will give you a different result on each call, so if you want many columns to share the same value, configure an alias (ie: `alias: [table2, table3]`).   


[PDO::__construct]: http://php.net/manual/fr/pdo.construct.php
[Faker]: https://github.com/fzaninotto/Faker#formatters
